.\" Manpage for vpn-monitor
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014-2015 PrivateOn / Tietosuojakone Oy, Helsinki, Finland
.\" All rights reserved. Use is subject to license terms.
.TH man 8 "01 Apr 2015" "0.9" "vpn-monitor man page"
.SH NAME
vpn-monitor \- PrivateOn VPN Monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpn-monitor
[option]
.sp
.B vpn-monitor \-\-check
.br
.B vpn-monitor \-\-disable
.br
.B vpn-monitor \-\-enable
.br
.B vpn-monitor \-\-foreground
.br
.B vpn-monitor \-\-help
.br
.B vpn-monitor \-\-start
.br
.B vpn-monitor \-\-stop
.br
.B vpn-monitor \-\-uncripple
.br
.B vpn-monitor \-\-watch
.SH DESCRIPTION
PrivateOn VPN Monitor actively monitors that your VPN connection is active and functioning. 
.br 
If the vpn is inactive, the last used VPN connection is retried. If this fails, the network is crippled. 
.br 
Crippling can be undone from the vpn-gui front-end or by using the \fB\-\-uncripple\fR option.
.PP
This program is designed to be run as a service and does not have a service independent daemonized mode. 
.br 
Errors and messages are logged to
.BI  /var/log/PrivateOn.log 
even in foreground mode.
.SH OPTIONS
All options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR"
Check if VPN Monitor is running and start/restart service if needed.
.IP "\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-disable\fR"
Disable active monitoring.
.IP "\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-enable\fR"
Enable active monitoring.
.IP "\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-foreground\fR"
Run as a foreground process
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Display usage message and exit.
.IP "\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR"
Same as \fB\-\-check\fR.
.IP "\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-stop\fR"
Stop VPN Monitor service.
.IP "\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uncripple\fR"
Undo network crippling.
.IP "\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-watch\fR"
Periodically displays response to 'monitor-state' query.
.SH SEE ALSO
vpn-gui(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Mikko Rautiainen (info@tietosuojakone.fi)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The vpn-monitor command is part of the PrivateOn VPN Manager package
.br 
and is available from Tietosuojakone Oy's Repository
.br 
.I \fIhttps://software.opensuse.org/package/PrivateOn-VPN\fR 