.\" Manpage for vpn_monitor.pl
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014-2015 PrivateOn / Tietosuojakone Oy, Helsinki, Finland
.\" All rights reserved. Use is subject to license terms.
.TH man 8 "01 Apr 2015" "0.9" "vpn_monitor.pl man page"
.SH NAME
vpn_monitor.pl \- PrivateOn VPN Monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpn_monitor.pl
[option]
.sp
.B vpn_monitor.pl \-\-check
.br
.B vpn_monitor.pl \-\-disable
.br
.B vpn_monitor.pl \-\-enable
.br
.B vpn_monitor.pl \-\-help
.br
.B vpn_monitor.pl \-\-start
.br
.B vpn_monitor.pl \-\-stop
.br
.B vpn_monitor.pl \-\-uncripple
.br
.B vpn_monitor.pl \-\-watch
.SH DESCRIPTION
PrivateOn VPN Monitor actively monitors that your VPN connection is active and functioning. 
.br 
If the vpn is inactive, the last used VPN connection is retried. If this fails, the network is crippled. 
.br 
Crippling can be undone from the vpn-gui front-end or by using the \fB\-\-uncripple\fR option.
.PP
The default action is to not daemonize and run in the foreground.
.SH OPTIONS
All options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR"
Check if VPN Monitor is running and start/restart if needed.
.IP "\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-disable\fR"
Disable active monitoring.
.IP "\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-enable\fR"
Enable active monitoring.
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Display this message and exit.
.IP "\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR"
Same as \fB\-\-check\fR.
.IP "\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-stop\fR"
Stop VPN Monitor service.
.IP "\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uncripple\fR"
Undo network crippling.
.IP "\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-watch\fR"
Periodically displays response to 'monitor-state' query.
.SH SEE ALSO
vpn_gui.pl(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Mikko Rautiainen (info@tietosuojakone.fi)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The vpn_monitor.pl command is part of the PrivateOn VPN Manager package
.br 
and is available from
.UR https://software.opensuse.org/package/PrivateOn-VPN
Tietosuojakone Oy's Repository
.UE .